---
layout: post
title: "GradCap-01 and -02"
author: "Michael Suguitan"
categories: eng
tags: video 
image: gradcap.jpg
---

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TiXeoV0C5Yw" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I made robotic graduation caps for both my undergraduate and graduate ceremonies.

## Undergrad (01)
The undergraduate cap (01) sweeps the tassel back-and-forth with a TowerPro SG90 micro servo.
The servo is controlled by an ATTiny, essentially a small-scale Arduino.
The cap is controlled by a wireless transmitter-receiver system harvested from a remote control car.
Pressing the button on the transmitter actuates the tassel.

## Graduate (02)
The graduate cap (02) is closer to an actual 'robot,' and is based on [the Blossom platform](/pages/research.md).
02 uses Dynamixel XL-320s and has two degrees of freedom: yaw and pitch.
Like Blossom, the motors are controlled with a Raspberry Pi and Dynamixel motor controller.
On the end of the tassel is a USB webcam for computer vision.
The camera provides a video feed to the Pi, which uses TensorFlow through a Coral edge TPU to do face *avoidance*.
Why face avoidance?
The cap, due to the loss of its original tassel-turning purpose (graduate ceremonies do not do the ceremonial 'turning of the tassel,' which, I've later found out, is a foreign idea to many countries outside of America), is going through an existential crisis that results in its avoidance of people.
However, using a phone application to control the motors, one can make the cap literally 'go through the motions.' 